A programming paradigm is a fundamental style, or methodology, of computer programming. There are several programming paradigms:
- [[#Imperative]]
- Functional (ew)
- Logic
- Event-driven
- Object-oriented 

## Imperative (procedural)

Values can change at runtime, constants at design time and use a structured programming approach. (BASIC, C, Java, Rust, Golang, JavaScript)

## Object-oriented

Unlike Procedural languages, functions and procedures are grouped around related data to construct an object. 
- Objects are created from classes
- A class is a blueprint of a related group of items. An instance of a class is called an object.
- An object is a collection of data and the corresponding methods that act on the data.

Object oriented is generally known for it's re-usability - "write once run anywhere".
Instantiation is the process of creating an object of the class.

### Advantages 
- Extensive planning phase makes for better designs.
- Source code for object is written and maintained independently.
- Programmers can use existing objects without needing to know how they are implemented.
- Good framework for code libraries.
- Software maintenance easier because of rigidly enforced modular structure.
- Each function is written and maintained independently of other objects.

### Classes
A class can be thought of as a blueprint or a master copy of a related group of items.
An object is an instance of a class.
Instantiation is the process of creating an object of the class.
A class has Methods and Properties. 
For example a human has the methods of : Wave, Run, Walk.
And their properties could be : HairColour, EyeColour, Name.
