A class is a blueprint for creating a related group of items. Similar to a gingerbread man cookie cutter.

## Abstraction
Presents a view of a real-world object at a high level.

Abstraction is the ability to ignore certain elements of a concept. ie a tube map is not accurate to scale or size and only shows what is necessary for travel. In code it is very similar, the focus is on properties and command operations.

## Encapsulation
Not allowing to look at an object at any other level of detail. Objects can be self contained.

Encapsulation is the grouping of data and methods together within the same object. This promotes the separation of the implementation and the interface.

Encapsulation also promotes information hiding, where the data within an object can only be accessed by the methods within that object. Code outside the class can only access the data through the defined methods. The parts exposed are called the class's interface. The interface should reveal as little as possible about the inner workings of the class. 

### Access modifiers
Properties of a class are generally declared as private. This is so that they cannot be accessed from outside the class. Methods can be declared as public, protected or private. These are access modifiers. 
Access modifiers control the accessibility of types which includes classes, their methods and properties. 

#### Private
A private member declared within a class module is accessible only within the class in which it is defined.

#### Public
A public member of a class can be accessed from any other class that instantiates that class. This means that public fields and methods are freely accessible from any other class as well as the class in which they are declared.

#### Protected
Applies to class members only. A protected method/attribute is one that is accessible only from within its own class or from a derived class.
